# CreoProject
CreoProject is a comprehensive Django-based web application designed for efficient management of student information and academic records. The application allows seamless addition, viewing, and management of student details along with their subject-specific marks.

# Key Features
Student Details Management: Capture essential information such as Name, Age, Email, City, and student Image.

Subject Mark Entry: Record marks for subjects like Language 1, Language 2, Acting, and Dance.

Integrated Dashboard: View detailed student profiles and their corresponding subject marks on a unified interface.

User-Friendly Interface: Navigate and interact effortlessly through a clean and intuitive design.

# Installation Guide
Prerequisites:<br>
Python 3.11.9<br>
Django 5.0.6<br>

# Installation Steps
## 1.Python Installation:
Download Python from python.org and follow installation instructions.
Verify installation with python --version.

## 2.Django Installation:
Open a terminal and install Django using:
```
pip install django
```
Verify installation with 
```
django-admin --version
```
# Project Setup

## 1.Create a Virtual Environment:
Create a virtual environment using:


```
python -m venv myenv
```
```
myenv\Scripts\activate
```

## 2.Initialize Project:

Navigate to your desired project directory and create a Django project

```
django-admin startproject creoproject
```
```
cd creoproject
```

## 3.Create Django App:

Inside your project directory, create a Django app:
```
python manage.py startapp studentapp
```

# Files in project(yuvarajproject):

## 1.Project-level URLs (yuvarajproject/urls.py)
This file serves as the main entry point for routing incoming requests to different Django applications (apps) or views.
You define global URL patterns here, which direct requests to specific app URLs or views.

## 2. Settings
Django project settings (settings.py) are crucial for configuring your Django application. 

# Files in Django App (yuvarajapp):

## 1.Admin.py(yuvarajapp/admin.py)
This file is where you register your models to make them accessible via the Django admin interface.

## 2.Models.py (yuvarajapp/models.py)
This file contains Django models, which are Python classes that define the structure of your database tables.

## 3.Views.py(yuvarajapp/views.py)
This file contains Django views, which are Python functions or classes that handle HTTP requests and return HTTP responses.

## 4.Urls.py (yuvarajapp/urls.py)
This file defines URL patterns for the app, mapping URLs to views that handle them.

## 5.Migrations
This directory contains database migration files generated by Django’s migration system.
```python manage.py makemigrations```

# Templates and HTML in Django
In Django, templates are HTML files that allow you to dynamically generate HTML content by embedding Python code (using Django's template language) to display data from views and models.

Here i used 2 html:<br>
i)home.html<br>
ii).studetails.html

# Run the Development Server:
```
Run the Development Server:
```

# Admin Interface
The Django admin interface allows you to manage and administer your project's data models (e.g., Student model) via a user-friendly interface.

Steps:<br>
### 1.Navigate to Admin URL:

Open your web browser and go to http://127.0.0.1:8000/admin/.

### 2.Log In:

Use your admin credentials (superuser credentials created during python manage.py createsuperuser) to log in.

### 3.Manage Students:

Add, edit, or delete students and their details through the provided admin interface.

# Student Pages
Student pages in your Django project are accessed through defined URLs and views. These pages typically display student details based on the student's ID (pk).

### Navigate to students:<br>
http://127.0.0.1:8000/student/1/<br>
http://127.0.0.1:8000/student/2/<br>
http://127.0.0.1:8000/student/3/<br>
http://127.0.0.1:8000/student/4/<br>
http://127.0.0.1:8000/student/5/<br>








